Dynamic taxes (#476)
saleor/saleor-docs: docs/developer/extending/apps/synchronous-webhooks/tax-webhooks.mdx

---
title: Tax webhooks
---

:::note
Subscription Webhook Payloads are available in Saleor 3.6.
:::

:::caution
This feature is currently in **Feature Preview**. This part of Saleor is not complete
and subject to change but is available to experiment and provide feedback.
:::

# Introduction

Tax webhooks are synchronous webhooks that allow delegating tax calculations to Saleor Apps. Synchronous means that these webhooks expect a response of a particular shape to be returned from the app to continue processing in Saleor. Tax webhooks only support HTTP(S) protocol; they are sent as POST requests with `application/json` body and expect a response of the same content type.

## Key concepts

`HANDLE_TAXES` permission is required for the app to be able to calculate taxes.

> When there are more than one app subscribed to `CHECKOUT_CALCULATE_TAXES` or `ORDER_CALCULATE_TAXES` we iterate over them until we get a proper response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When there is more than one app subscribed to `CHECKOUT_CALCULATE_TAXES` or `ORDER_CALCULATE_TAXES` we iterate over them until we get a proper response
```

Prices on checkout and order are denormalized.

- Order prices
  Prices for order never expired, but could be invalidated only in `draft order` or `unconfirmed order`. Prices are invalidated automatically for any address, user, line and shipping change in order.
- Checkout prices

>   Prices for checkout could expired. Expiration time is set automatically when new taxes are fetched(regardless of source tax). Expiration time could be set in setting by `CHECKOUT_PRICES_TTL` variable. Prices for checkout also could be invalidated by any change in checkout. This process is also automatically for any address, user, line and shipping change in checkout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Prices for checkout can expire. The expiration time is set automatically when new taxes are fetched (regardless of source tax). Expiration time could be set in the settings by the `CHECKOUT_PRICES_TTL` variable. Prices for checkouts can also be invalidated by any change in checkouts. This process is also automatic for any address, user, line, and shipping change in checkouts.
```

          Tax Plugin -->>- Manager: Return prices (with optional taxes)
        end
        Manager -->>- Saleor: Apply prices to model
        Saleor ->>+ Manager: Calculate taxes <br>with new approach
          Manager ->>+ Webhook Plugin: Fetch taxes by <br>manager.get_taxes_for_*
          loop iterate over tax apps
            Webhook Plugin ->>+ Tax App: Send sync webhook
            Tax App -->>- Webhook Plugin: Send tax data
            Webhook Plugin ->> Webhook Plugin: Exit when received valid tax data<br>or no more apps
          end
          Webhook Plugin -->>- Manager: Return Optional[TaxData]
        opt if received tax data
          Manager-->>-Saleor: Apply taxes to model
        end
        Saleor ->> Saleor: Save all model changes to DB
    end
    Saleor -->>- User: Return model's prices
```

## Available payment events are:

| Name                       | Description                   |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `CHECKOUT_CALCULATE_TAXES` | Calculates taxes for checkout |
| `ORDER_CALCULATE_TAXES`    | Calculates taxes for order    |

# Checkout taxes

> Saleor Apps can subscribe to the `CHECKOUT_CALCULATE_TAXES` synchronous webhook. It is called whenever any user fetch checkout prices which are expired or not calculated yet. Response is processed and saved on checkout and checkout lines. Prices could expired or be invalidated by any change in checkout. Any tax app is treated as source of true about pricing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Saleor Apps can subscribe to the `CHECKOUT_CALCULATE_TAXES` synchronous webhook. It is called whenever any user fetches checkout prices that are expired or not calculated yet. The response is processed and saved on checkout and checkout lines. Prices can expire or be invalidated by any change in checkout. Any tax app is treated as the source of truth about pricing.
```

:::note

> For amount fields, we use the same format as in the rest of the API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the amount fields, we use the same format as in the rest of the API.
```

> For example amount of 12,34 USD will be sent as `"total_amount": "12.34"`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the amount of 12,34 USD will be sent as `"total_amount": "12.34"`
```

      "currency_code": "USD"
    },
    "discounts": [
      {
        "name": "New user promo",
        "amount": "10.00"
      }
    ],
    "lines": [
      {
        "id": "Q2hlY2tvdXRMaW5lOjdmMmQwMDZkLWM1YmEtNDE4MS1hMTlkLTVmYzczMTMxNmYyMg==",
        "charge_taxes": true,
        "sku": "202165300",
        "variant_id": "UHJvZHVjdFZhcmlhbnQ6Mzg0",
        "full_name": "Apple Juice (202165300)",
        "product_name": "Apple Juice",
        "variant_name": "202165300",
        "product_metadata": {},
        "product_type_metadata": {},
        "unit_amount": "1.99",
        "quantity": 10,
        "total_amount": "19.90"
      },
      {
        "id": "Q2hlY2tvdXRMaW5lOmYxYzNhYjc2LTk0ZTItNDQ4NC05MzIxLWI0NDZiYWYzZjBiZQ==",
        "charge_taxes": true,
        "sku": "12487157",
        "variant_id": "UHJvZHVjdFZhcmlhbnQ6MzQ2",
        "full_name": "Blue Hoodie (UHJvZHVjdFZhcmlhbnQ6MzQ2)",
        "product_name": "Blue Hoodie",
        "variant_name": "UHJvZHVjdFZhcmlhbnQ6MzQ2",
        "product_metadata": {},
        "product_type_metadata": {},
        "unit_amount": "31.50",
        "quantity": 2,
        "total_amount": "63.00"
      }
    ],
  }
]
```

### Fields:

> 1. `id` - Id of checkout for which app should calculate taxes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. `id` - Id of the checkout for which the app should calculate taxes.
```

2. `included_taxes_in_prices` - Flag that shows whether taxes should be included in prices.

> 3. `shipping_name` - Name of shipping method assigned to checkout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. `shipping_name` - Name of the shipping method assigned to checkout.
```

> 4. `shipping_amount` - Price of shipping method assigned to checkout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. `shipping_amount` - Price of the shipping method assigned to checkout.
```

5. `currency` - Checkout currency.
6. `metadata` - Public metadata of checkout.

> 7. `user_id` - Id of the user assigned do checkout. (In case of anonymous customer this field return `null`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. `user_id` - Id of the user assigned to checkout. (In case of anonymous customer this field returns `null`)
```

> 8. `user_public_metadata` - Public metadata of user assigned to checkout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. `user_public_metadata` - Public metadata of the user assigned to checkout.
```

9. `address` - Shipping address assigned to checkout. (In case of checkout without required shipping this field contains the billing address.)

> 10. `channel` - Data of channel to which checkout is assigned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
10. `channel` - Data of the channel to which checkout is assigned.
```

11. `discounts` - List of discounts assigned to checkout. (Those discounts should be applied by tax app.)
    1. `name` - Name of discount.
    2. `amount` - Amount of assigned discount.
12. `lines` - List of items inside checkout.

>     1. `id` - Id of line

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. `id` - Id of the line.
```

    2. `charge_taxes` - Flag that shows whether taxes should be calculated for the line.
    3. `sku` - SKU of product from the line.

>     4. `variant_id` - Id of variant from the line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    4. `variant_id` - Id of the variant from the line.
```

>     5. `full_name` - Full name of item from the line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    5. `full_name` - Full name of the item from the line.
```

    6. `product_name` - Name of product from the line.
    7. `variant_name` - Name of variant from the line.

>     8. `product_metadata` - Public metadata assigned to product from the line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    8. `product_metadata` - Public metadata assigned to the product from the line.
```

## Response format

```json
{
 "shipping_tax_rate": "10"
 "shipping_price_gross_amount": 59.17,
 "shipping_price_net_amount": 53.79,
  "lines": [
    {
      "tax_rate": "10",
      "total_gross_amount": 17.49,
      "total_net_amount": 15.91
    },
    {
      "tax_rate": "10",
      "total_gross_amount": 55.40,
      "total_net_amount": 50.36
    }
  ],
}
```

### Fields:

1. `shipping_tax_rate` - Tax rate of shipping.
2. `shipping_price_gross_amount` - The gross price of shipping.

3. `shipping_price_net_amount` - Net price of shipping.
4. `lines` - List of lines tax assigned do checkout. Lines should be returned in the same order in which they were sent to the app.
   1. `tax_rate` - Tax rate of line.
   2. `total_gross_amount` - Gross price of line.
   3. `total_net_amount` - Net price of line.

# Order taxes

Saleor Apps can subscribe to the `ORDER_CALCULATE_TAXES` synchronous webhook. It is called whenever any user fetch order prices which are expired or not calculated yet. Response form app is processed ans saved on order and order liens. Prices could expired or be invalidated by any change in order. Any tax app is treated as source of true about pricing.

:::note

> For amount fields, we use the same format as in the rest of the API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the amount fields, we use the same format as in the rest of the API.
```

> For example amount of 12,34 USD will be sent as `"total_amount": "12.34"`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the amount of 12,34 USD will be sent as `"total_amount": "12.34"`
```

    "address": {
      "type": "Address",
      "id": "QWRkcmVzczoyMDM=",
      "first_name": "Brandon",
      "last_name": "Ruiz",
      "company_name": "",
      "street_address_1": "09925 Isabel Run",
      "street_address_2": "",
      "city": "JAMESFORT",
      "city_area": "",
      "postal_code": "72850",
      "country": "US",
      "country_area": "AR",
      "phone": ""
    },
    "channel": {
      "type": "Channel",
      "id": "Q2hhbm5lbDox",
      "slug": "default-channel",
      "currency_code": "USD"
    },
    "discounts": [
      {
        "name": "New user discount",
        "amount": "10.00"
      }
    ],
    "lines": [
      {
        "type": "OrderLine",
        "id": "T3JkZXJMaW5lOmE5MTc2NjhmLWNmYjUtNDM4Yi05MTFlLWNhNGVlZTgyYzQ5Mw==",
        "variant_id": "UHJvZHVjdFZhcmlhbnQ6Mzg0",
        "full_name": "Apple Juice (202165300)",
        "product_metadata": {},
        "product_type_metadata": {},
        "charge_taxes": true,
        "sku": "202165300",
        "unit_amount": "1.99",
        "total_amount": "1.99",
        "product_name": "Apple Juice",
        "variant_name": "202165300",
        "quantity": 1
      }
    ],
  }
]
```

### Fields:

> 1. `id` - Id of order for which app should calculate taxes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. `id` - Id of the order for which the app should calculate taxes.
```

2. `included_taxes_in_prices` - Flag that shows whether taxes should be included in prices.

> 3. `shipping_name` - Name of shipping method assigned to order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. `shipping_name` - Name of the shipping method assigned to the order.
```

> 4. `shipping_amount` - Price of shipping method assigned to order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. `shipping_amount` - Price of the shipping method assigned to the order.
```

5. `currency` - Order currency.

> 6. `metadata` - Public metadata of order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. `metadata` - Public metadata of the order.
```

> 7. `user_id` - Id of the user assigned to order. (In case of anonymous customer this field return `null`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. `user_id` - Id of the user assigned to the order. (In case of anonymous customer this field return `null`)
```

> 8. `user_public_metadata` - Public metadata of user assigned to order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. `user_public_metadata` - Public metadata of the user assigned to the order.
```

> 9. `address` - Shipping address assigned to order. (In case of order without required shipping this field contains billing address.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. `address` - Shipping address assigned to the order. (In case of the order without required shipping this field contains billing address.)
```

> 10. `channel` - Data of channel to which order is assigned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
10. `channel` - Data of the channel to which the order is assigned.
```

> 11. `discounts` - List of discounts assigned to order. (Those discounts should be applied by tax app.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
11. `discounts` - List of the discounts assigned to the order. (These discounts should be applied by the tax app.)
```

>     1. `name` - Name of discount.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. `name` - Name of the discount.
```

>     2. `amount` - Amount of assigned discount.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. `amount` - Amount of the assigned discount.
```

> 12. `lines` - List of items inside order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
12. `lines` - List of the items inside the order.
```

>     1. `id` - Id of the line

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. `id` - Id of the line.
```

    2. `charge_taxes` - Flag that shows whether taxes should be calculated for the line.

>     3. `sku` - SKU of product from the line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    3. `sku` - SKU of the product from the line.
```

>     4. `variant_id` - Id of variant from the line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    4. `variant_id` - Id of the variant from the line.
```

>     5. `full_name` - Full name of item from the line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    5. `full_name` - Full name of the item from the line.
```

>     6. `product_name` - Name of product from the line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    6. `product_name` - Name of the product from the line.
```

>     7. `variant_name` - Name of variant from the line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    7. `variant_name` - Name of the variant from the line.
```

>     8. `product_metadata` - Public metadata assigned to product from the line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    8. `product_metadata` - Public metadata assigned to the product from the line.
```

>     9. `product_type_metadata` - Public metadata assigned for product type form the line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    9. `product_type_metadata` - Public metadata assigned for the product type from the line.
```

    10. `unit_amount` - Price of the single item in the line.

>     11. `quantity` - Quantity of item in the line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    11. `quantity` - Quantity of the item in the line.
```

    12. `total_amount` - Total price of the line.

## Response format

```json
{
 "shipping_tax_rate": "10"
 "shipping_price_gross_amount": 59.17,
 "shipping_price_net_amount": 53.79,
  "lines": [
    {
      "tax_rate": "10",
      "total_gross_amount": 17.49,
      "total_net_amount": 15.91
    },
    {
      "tax_rate": "10",
      "total_gross_amount": 55.40,
      "total_net_amount": 50.36
    }
  ],
}
```

### Fields:

1. `shipping_tax_rate` - Tax rate of shipping.
2. `shipping_price_gross_amount` - Gross price of shipping.

3. `shipping_price_net_amount` - Net price of shipping.

> 4. `lines` - List of lines tax assigned do order. Lines should be returned in same order in which they were sent to the app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. `lines` - List of line taxes assigned to order. Lines should be returned in the same order in which they were sent to the app.
```

>    1. `tax_rate` - Tax rate of line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   1. `tax_rate` - Tax rate of the line.
```

>    2. `total_gross_amount` - Gross price of line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   2. `total_gross_amount` - Gross price of the line.
```

>    3. `total_net_amount` - Net price of line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   3. `total_net_amount` - Net price of the line.
```
